<!--- AUTOGENERATED FROM selfdrive/car/CARS_template.md, DO NOT EDIT. --->

# Support Information for {{car_docs_with_extras | length}} Known Cars

|{{ExtraCarsColumn | map(attribute='value') | join('|') | replace(hardware_col_name, wide_hardware_col_name)}}|
|---|---|---|{% for _ in range((ExtraCarsColumn | length) - 3) %}{{':---:|'}}{% endfor +%}
{% for car_docs in car_docs_with_extras %}
|{% for column in ExtraCarsColumn %}{{car_docs.get_extra_cars_column(column)}}|{% endfor %}

{% endfor %}

# Types of Support

**opendbc can support many more cars than it currently does.** There are a few reasons your car may not be supported.
If your car doesn't fit into any of the incompatibility criteria here, then there's a good chance it can be supported!
We're adding support for new cars all the time. **We don't have a roadmap for car support**, and in fact, most car
support comes from users like you!

## Upstream

A supported vehicle is one that just works when you install a comma device. All supported cars provide a better
experience than any stock system. Supported vehicles reference the US market unless otherwise specified.

## Under Review

A vehicle under review is one for which software support has been merged into upstream openpilot, but hasn't yet been
tested for drive quality and conformance with [comma safety guidelines](https://github.com/commaai/openpilot/blob/master/docs/SAFETY.md).
This is a normal part of the development and quality assurance process. This vehicle will not work when upstream
openpilot is installed, but custom forks may allow their use.

## Custom

TODO: Talk about situations like Chevy Bolt or Volt or whatever it was

## Dashcam

TODO: May collapse this into community, and just set the community support tag in the car port

## Community

Although they're not upstream, the community has openpilot running on other makes and models. See the 'Community Supported Models' section of each make [on our wiki](https://wiki.comma.ai/).

## Incompatible

### CAN Bus Security

TODO: Talk about state of Toyota SecOC

TODO: GM Global B?

### FlexRay

All the cars that openpilot supports use a [CAN bus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAN_bus) for communication between all the car's computers, however a CAN bus isn't the only way that the computers in your car can communicate. Most, if not all, vehicles from the following manufacturers use [FlexRay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FlexRay) instead of a CAN bus: **BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Land Rover, and some Volvo**. These cars may one day be supported, but we have no immediate plans to support FlexRay.

### No Lateral Control API

TODO: Talk about hydraulic power steering

